# LTD in depth
#MCB80_2x #neurophysiology #synapse #plasticity #model

Long–term depression (LTD) also follows a Hebbian and non–Hebbian model. In the case of _non–Hebbian_ models, for instance, _heterosynaptic LTDs_ has been observed, where neuromodulatory inputs can tell the cell to weakens certain synapses.

For Hebbian cases, it has been observed that LTDs happen in many areas of the CNS, including: sensory cortex, prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. The mechanisms by which they are achieved vary from area to area, but the two most understood ones are:

- In the _cerebellum_ LTDs result from strong synaptic stimulation.
- Whereas in the _hippocampus_, LTDS result from persistent weak synaptic stimulation.

Not withstanding the area of the brain, however, in both the cerebellum and hippocampus case LTDs produce a decrease in the postsynaptic receptor density, thus rendering the _postsynaptic_ neuron less able to react to stimuli from _presynaptic_ neurons.

The _most common_ receptor involved in LTDs is the **glutamate receptor**, of which there are not only _ionotropic_ receptors (AMPA and NMDA) but also _metabotropic_ ones (mGluRs). The signaling in LTDs is also mediated by **calcium** influx, though smaller than in LTPs. This calcium influx produce:

- **Degradation** of postsynaptic AMPA receptors, wich eventually causes a decrease in their density.
- **Deactivation** of AMPA receptors through _dephosphorilation_ by _calcium–dependent phosphatases_.

# Zettel

- §202006241253 ─ Spike timing–dependent plasticity

# Links