# IPSPs in depth
#MCB80_2x #neurophysiology #signaling #receptors #CNS

The _most common_ inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the central nervous system (CNS) are _ligand–gated ion channels_, including GABA and glycine receptors, both of which are anion–selective ion channels that increase the conductance to $Cl^{-}$. The influx of chloride ions into the cell and its subsequent change in membrane potential close to the Nernst potential of chloride (about -65 mV) counteract the influx of $Na^{+}$ whenever an EPSP is present. This inhibitory mechanism is known as **shunting**, and constitute the reason why these receptors _anchor_ the membrane's potential near to the resting potential, thus lowering the likelihood of reaching the threshold to fire action potentials (the _go signal_).

Structurally both receptors are very similar to the acethylcholine receptor, but whereas the acethylcholine receptor had an abundance of negatively charged amino acids in the M2 domain of the transmembrane subunits, this inhibitory receptors have an abundance of _positively or neutrally charged amino acids_ in the same domain.

1. **GABA receptors** are the most common brain inhibitory receptors. They bind to the neurotransmitter _gamma–aminobutyric acid (GABA)_. This ionotropic GABA receptors are called **GABA$_{\textrm A}$**. There are also metabotropic GABA receptors, named **GABA$_{\textrm B}$**.
2. **Glycine receptors** are more common in the spinal cord, and bind to _glycine_.

Several substances act as agonist and antagonist to the action of both receptors.

1. **Strychnine** is a very powerful glycine receptor antagonist. Blocking of this receptor can induce muscular convulsion due to the loss of inhibitory action. It is also an acethylcholine receptor antagonist.
2. **Picrotoxin**, also known as cocculin, act as a channel blocker for the GABA receptor in the brain, producing stimulant and convulsant effect, inducing muscle rigidity and seizures. Picrotoxin can be used to counterbalance the effect of barbiturates.
3. **Barbiturates** are _positive allosteric modulators_ of the GABA receptor, thus acting as depressant of the CNS on specific pathways.
4. **Benzodiazepins** and **Alcohol** are also GABAergic agonists.

Finally, there are diseases that affect the inhibitory stimulation of neurons. One of these diseases is called **hyperekplexia**, in which there is an impairment in the function of glycine receptors either in the presynaptic terminal as well in the postsynaptic one. The latter case is well represented with a mutation in the gene that encodes for the glycine receptors, producing an exaggerated _startling response_ and generalized stiffness. A treatment comprises the use of GABAergic agonists like clonazepam for its inhibitory effects.

# Zettel

- §202006171722 ─ Allosteric modulator
- §202006172011 ─ Synaptic efficacy

# Links

- [Wikipedia » GABA receptor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GABA_receptor)
- [Wikipedia » Glycine receptor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycine_receptor)
- [Wikipedia » Hyperekplexia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperekplexia)