# Hindbrain
#MCB80_3x #neuroanatomy #model #subcorticalAreas

Although the cortex allows for high level integration of information, it is a rather modern evolutionary solution. Older evolutionary areas allow for unconscious control of critical actions such breathing, heart rate, blood pressure, etc. These areas are the _hindbrain_, _midbrain_ and _forebrain_.

The **hindbrain**, also known as the **rhombencephalon**, comprises three substructures: the **medulla**, **pons** and **cerebellum**. The medulla and the pons correspond to the **brainstem** which is an old structure, whereas the cerebellum is relatively new, dating some 400 million years. Confusingly enough, the **midbrain** is considered part of the _brainstem_.

The **medulla** connects _higher levels of the brain_ to the _spinal cord_. It functions are: _a)_ maintenance of posture, _b)_ basic protective motor reflexes such as  vomiting, coughing, sneezing and swallowing, and _c)_ some autonomic functions like regulation of breathing, heart rate, blood pressure and digestion through modulation of the _sympathetic_ and _parasympathetic_ systems. In any case, cerebral _override_ is possible at some extent, but the final homeostatic decision of the medulla always prevails.

The **pons** is a relay station formed by thick bundles of fibers, conducting signals from the brain down to the medulla and cerebellum. There are also **pontine nuclei** which are involved in regulation of: sleep, respiration and swallowing, chewing, bladder control, some eye movement, facial expressions and upright posture. Some of these functions overlap with the ones in charge of other subcortical areas, like the medulla. Damage to the pons can cause severe disruption of the signaling down to the spinal cord, where the extreme case is the **locked–in syndorme** and even death.

# Zettel

- §202007211640 ─ Midbrain

# Links

- [Wikipedia » Hindbrain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindbrain)
- [Wikipedia » Medulla oblongata](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medulla_oblongata)
- [Wikipedia » Pons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pons)