# LTP in depth
#MCB80_2x #neurophysiology #synapse #plasticity #model

Long–term potentiation (LTP) is a process that can happen in either _Hebbian_ or _non–Hebbian_ fashion. An specific non–Hebbian type of LTPs are the _anti–Hebbian_ mechanisms, that is, a mechanism in which the concomitant firing of the presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons produces a weakening of the synapse.

A particular type of Hebbian LTP model is the **NMDA receptor–dependent LTP**, a type of glutamate receptor found in the CNS. This receptor is so called because it binds the molecule **$N$–methyl–D–aspartate**, a synthetic substance used for identification (NMDA receptors of course didn't evolved to bind to this substance).

NMDA receptors are _calcium_ channels that function both as **ligand–gated** and **voltage–gated** channels. It requires the concomitance of these two events in order to open: a) _Binding_ of both _glutamate_ and _glycine_, and b) _Depolarization_ of the neuron's membrane by the activation of AMPA receptors, a glycine ligand–gated cation channel with high permeability to $Na^{+}$ and $K^{+}$, but almost no permeability to $Ca^{+2}$.

Normally, a _magnesium ion blocks_ the entrance of the NMDA receptor, however, when the _postsynaptic_ neuron is depolarized this magnesium blockade is repelled. This is achieved by the activation of AMPA receptors, which requires the activation of the _presynaptic_ neuron for the release of the neurotransmitters. In this way, both, a presynaptic and postsynaptic event must happen in order for the NMDA channels to activate, thus, accomplishing the rule: neurons that fire together wire together.

The calcium that is allowed to rush into the neuron by the activation of the NMDA receptors is a potent intracellular signaling ion that works through the activation of a protein named **calcium calmodulin–dependent protein kinase II** (CaMKII). This, in turn, activates two molecular cascades that will determine a LTP process:

1. **Phosphorilation of AMPA receptors**, which in turn makes them open more easily, allowing them to be more sensitive than normal when LTP has taken place.
2. **Increase production and transportation of AMPA receptors**, allowing also for greater sensitivity of  the postsynaptic neuron to glutamate.

Finally, NMDA receptor–dependent LTP show four important characteristics:

1. **Input specificity**, meaning that the effect doesn't leak between synapses of several presynaptic neurons to a single postsynaptic neuron, i.e. the effect is localized because of the necessity of locally activated voltage–gated AMPA receptors.
2. **Associativity**, which happens when a weak stimulation (that is unable to activate NMDA receptors) is potentiated by a locally close stronger synapse by means of depolarization due to AMPA activation, in turn increasing the probability of voltage–gated activation of NMDA receptors in the weaker synapse.
3. **Cooperation**, where LTP can be induced cooperatively by the summation of many weak synapses.
4. **Persistence**, meaning that the synapses can last from minutes to hours or even longer.

# Zettel

- §202006241159 ─ LTD in depth
- §202006171544 ─ Glutamate receptors

# Links

- [Wikipedia » Calcium/calmodulin–dependent protein kinase II](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ca2%2B/calmodulin-dependent_protein_kinase_II)