# Capacitance
#MCB80_1x #neurophysiology #physics #equation

Capacitance is the _ratio of change in electric charge of a system to a corresponding change in its electric potential_. In other words, is a ratio that indicates how easy or hard (and thus how fast) it is for some materials to buildup charge while exposed to an electric charge. **Higher capacitance** means a relatively higher difficulty and subsequent slower buffering of an electric charge, meanwhile **lower capacitance** means a fast and easy buffering of electric charge.

There are two types of capacitance: _self_ and _mutual_ capacitance. **Self capacitance** refers to the intrinsic property of a material to buffer a charge, and thus, any object that can be electrically charged exhibits self capacitance. **Mutual capacitance** is the buildup of electrical charge between two adjacent conductors, usually sandwiching a dielectric material.

In the cell, the membrane forms a mutual capacitance system between the two mediums (intra and extracellular) serving as the dielectric material. The equation for capacitance on a **parallel-plate capacitor** is as follows:

$$
\displaystyle C = \frac{\varepsilon A}{d}
$$

> where $\varepsilon$ is the relative permittivity of a material (formerly dielectric constant), $A$ is the area of the capacitor, $d$ is the distance between the plates.

The **relative permittivity** of a material is its absolute perimittivity expressed as a ratio relative to vacuum permittivity. That is, it is how more or less capacitance a given material gives while acting as the dielectric component of a capacitor compared to vacuum as the dielectric material. The term **dielectric constant** has been deprecated.

# Zettel

-§202006061649 ─ Ohm's law

# Links

- [Wikipedia » Capacitance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capacitance)
- [Wikipedia » Relative permittivity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relative_permittivity)