---
title: Hippocampus
author: Ramón Opazo
date: 21/07/2020
tags: [MCB80_3x, model, subcorticalAreas]
description: There are two types of long term memories. Declarative memory, also named explicit memory, is the memory of knowing what, that is, facts and events, consciously recalled (or declared). It is explicitly stored and retrieved.
image: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1595313173023-1b317fc8348d?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=611&q=80'
---

There are two types of long term memories. **Declarative memory**, also named _explicit memory_, is the memory of **knowing what**, that is, facts and events, _consciously recalled_ (or declared). It is explicitly stored and retrieved.

**Procedural memory**, also called _implicit memory_, is the memory of **knowing how**. It is an _unconscious memory_ of skills and how to do things, particularly in the use of objects or movements of the body. They are acquired by repetition and practice.

The **hippocampus** is a subcortical area that has two major functions: declarative memory encoding and spatial orientation. Damage in the hippocampus produce _anterograde amnesia_, but implicit procedural memory is preserved, though it must be introduced every time by an external examiner. Long–term potentiation [§202006241050 ─ LTP in depth] has been involved in this phenomenon, enforcing neural patterns that encode for declarative memory.

About the spatial orientation function, cells of the hippocampus and the neighboring _entorhinal cortex_ constitute a kind of _positioning system_ that dynamically maps the environment as one moves around from place to place.

The hippocampus is one of the two places where **neurogenesis** happens in the _adult brain_. Its role is not well understood, it is apparently linked to _memory overwrite_, a process that happens preferentially in babies, who don’t form declarative memories for the first two years.

## Zettel

- §202007221805 ─ Hipothalamus

## Links

- [The Human Memory » Declarative (explicit) & procedural (implicit) memory](https://human-memory.net/explicit-implicit-memory/)
- [Wikipedia » Hippocampus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hippocampus)
