# Midbrain
#MCB80_3x #neuroanatomy #model #subcorticalAreas

The **midbrain**, also named _mesencephalon_ is a structure hidden by the expansion of the fore and hindbrain. Most vertebrates share a highly regular structure. Its functions relate to: vision, hearing, motor control, sleep regulation and wake cycle, arousal and alertness, and temperature regulation. The midbrain is subdivided into several structures:

The **tectum** is the top most part of the midbrain and consists (in humans) of two pairs of **colliculi**. The _superior colliculi_ receives inputs from the retina and V1, and control visual reflexes, specially those related to tracking. They also generate the eye movement during the REM phase of sleep. The _inferior colliculi_ control auditory reflexes, modulating sensory orientation.

The **peduncles** are bundles of nerve fibers in charge of transmitting motor impulses between the neocortex and the lower brain areas. The type of movements are mostly voluntary ones rather than reflexes. The **tegmentum** is a particular area within the peduncles that control simple body movements and various reflexive and homeostatic circuits. The nuclei in the tegmentum project directly to the basal ganglia (related to behaviors such as hunger, thirst and sex).

The **substantia nigra** is an specific midbrain nucleus which contains many clustered _dopaminergic_ neurons, and high levels of _melanin_. Dopaminergic activity is key for the basal ganglionic function, specially mediating for voluntary movement.

# Zettel

- §202007211713 ─ Cerebellum

# Links

- [Wikipedia » Midbrain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Midbrain)